We finished the relationships and we will start with the data view right now
and if you look at our workflow, you can see that we are still in the data modeling part but in that
data view. Now in the data view, we have to understand one important thing, the language, so the formula language
or the code that lies behind that data model is totally different from that that we had in the query editor,
let's talk about that.
So we have one tool and two languages,
this means that we have first that M language, you might have heard of that we talked about that also sometimes
in the last module.
However the M language can be described as follows,
this is the power query formula language and it's made for data transformation and this means it should be
applied to do the following,
to prepare your data before you load them into the data model.
So this means in the query editor, you should use that language.
This is the first one but there is a second language, the DAX language, the Data Analysis Expression language,
let's see how we can describe this language.
Well as I just said, it's the Data Analysis Expression language,
it's made for analytical data calculations and it can be slightly compared to Excel formulas.
Now this is not Excel,
that's an important information but if you want to have a quick idea on how these DAX formulas look
like, that's probably the best way.
Now why do we use that DAX language?
Well we use it to create formulas, to create that in-depth analysis that we might want to have in our
data model, specifically in the data view.
Now we have that two languages and now you might ask ourselves, OK are they kind of the same or
are they equal or are they connected,
so maybe we have kind of a combination of those two languages
and this is definitely not the case.
Both languages are totally independent from each other,
they follow a different structure, a different logic and a different code
and additionally, you only use the M language in the query editor and the DAX language in the data model,
so that's per definition
a big difference.
So we could keep talking about the differences in theory or we could just go back to our project and
simply create a new column which should retrieve the same results but which should be calculated one
time in the query editor using the M language and a second time using the DAX in the data model.
Let's go back to our project and do that in the next video.